# Capstone-MIS581
The project is for my Capstone course at Colorado State Global in MS Data Analytics. Below is the abstract of my research project. 
Cancer mortality had been decreasing year on year until COVID pandemic in 2020 and 2021 cancer mortality increased (Blevins Primeau, 2023).  Previous research has been done to show the disparities in cancer outcomes and how cancer mortality was impacted during COVID.  This research project focuses on the factors that are correlated to higher cancer mortality in the first two years of the COVID pandemic, 2020 and 2021.  Using data extracted from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention WONDER database containing mortality rate with age adjustment factor a stepwise regression model was created evaluating patient state, sex, cancer location, race, and ethnicity.  The outcome of this research is in line with the previous studies reviewed but with a focus on the first two years of COVID.  Based on these factors’ cancer sites were the most significant factor, specifically Pancreatic, Liver, Esophagus, Brain, and Liver Cancer.  It is recommended that during times of community stress or pandemic that screening and treatment for this cancer be priorities and continue.  Based on the modeled data, Black communities are also at a higher risk for cancer mortality during the COVID pandemic.  It is recommended that the Black community is supported with additional resources to bridge this disparity in cancer mortality.  Finally, it was found that males have a higher rate of mortality than females.  This could be based on biological differences or bias in the data for uncontrolled factors.  This is an area that future work could be done to isolate the cancers that affect only one gender.  Additional research could be explored by adding in more variables and factors to get an even broader understanding of what is driving the disparities between different groups. 
Blevins Primeau, A. S. (2023, September 27). Cancer Deaths Increased During the First 2 Years of the COVID-19 Pandemic. Infectious Disease Advisor. 



